# How to run `ClinCNV` for somatic analysis

Saying _somatic_ we assume that for each tumor sample sequenced you also sequence a normal sample. Several tumor samples may be analysed using the same normal. We don't detect such events as _mosaicism_ even if it is theoretically possible - because we don't have the data to test and we don't have a request for implementing such mode in `ClinCNV`, but if you have both - drop us an email.

As for _germline_ samples `ClinCNV` may utilize on-target and off-target coverage, but also _B-allele frequencies_. In brief, a CNV event in somatic sample may lead to changes in allele balance of point mutations (SNVs). The typical strategy on how to use signals from SNVs is 1) calculate read depths of SNVs for reference allele and alternative allele in both normal and tumor samples, 2) sub-select SNVs that are likely to be heterozgyous in normal tissue (which allele balance is close to 0.5), 3) measure the deviation of allele balance from normal to tumor. For example, if a sample has normally diploid region and it has a SNV with _C_ as reference and _T_ as alternative, we may expect 50% of reads, aligned to that position, to have _C_ in their sequence and 50% should have _T_ - thus we have something close to 0.5 as a B-allele frequency at this position. But if the region was duplicated (e.g. region containing _T_ was copied once more), we expect ~33% of reads containing _C_ and ~66% containing _T_. Signal from B-allele frequencies helps a lot in somatic diagnositcs, it can distinguish between complex copy-number alterations and normal ones, only B-allele frequency change may indicate Loss of Heterozygosity events and it significantly improves the accuracy. So we highly recommend you to obtain BAF data from your samples, even if the procedure is quite complicated, but you always should remember that sometimes this data may be "sensitive" in sense of privacy and you need to obtain a consent of your patients before using it (and _especially_ publishing it anywhere).



